# Project-Machine-Vision-using-OpenCV
Machine vision is a technology that enables automatic inspection and analysis for applications including automatic inspection, process control, and robotic guidance by using image processing. It’s important to know that when mentioning machine vision it can be in reference to many different technologies, software and hardware products, integrated systems, actions, methods, and expertise.  Machine vision is a technical capability that is integrated with existing technologies in new ways and applies it with the aim to solve real-world problems.  Machine vision is a systems engineering discipline and can be considered distinct from computer vision which is a form of computer science and not done through a tangible piece of hardware such as a vision box or camera attached to a robot.  Machine vision is the body of a system and computer vision is the intelligence of the system, similar to how a computer is a frame for what goes inside such as the computer chips that power up the computer.  Without computer vision, machine vision can’t work as it’s the brains behind processing the information. It’s important to note that when computer vision technology advances it increases the possibility of potential applications for machine vision increases respectively. ClearView Imaging makes the valid point that computer vision can process images that might not be photos or videos and instead be an image from a thermal or infrared sensor, a motion detector, or other sources.

## OpenCV Python
OpenCV is a huge open-source library for computer vision, machine learning, and image processing. OpenCV supports a wide variety of programming languages like Python, C++, Java, etc. It can process images and videos to identify objects, faces, or even the handwriting of a human. When it is integrated with various libraries, such as Numpy which is a highly optimized library for numerical operations, then the number of weapons increases in your Arsenal i.e whatever operations one can do in Numpy can be combined with OpenCV. This OpenCV tutorial will help you learn the Image-processing from Basics to Advance, like operations on Images, Videos using a huge set of Opencv-programs and projects.


## About this project
In this project, we have tried to display some opencv capabilities in the form of a project.

## Video of how the program works
